+++
title = "Approaching and Preparing for Math Competitions"
authors = ["Danielle Murphy"]

[taxonomies]
tags = ["advice", "bmmt", "math-competitions"]
+++

Welcome to the first post on the new BMT blog, a new initiative started by our
outreach team! We’re excited to have another avenue towards creating an open and
welcoming community of people who enjoy mathematics.

We hope to post some helpful tips and resources for students who are interested
in math competitions, and make it easier for those who are interested to become
acclimated to the experience. If you are a coach, parent, or math educator, this
should help you with guiding your students towards success.

For our first post today we’ll highlight some advice about how to prepare for
and approach BmMT and math competitions in general. We discussed similar content
at our [BmMT Q&A](/news/bmmt-2025-qanda-session/) earlier this month, so this
might sound familiar if you were there or checked out the slides :)

---

### 1. Find a way to make preparing fun, and don’t study alone!

One of the most common roadblocks to preparing for math competitions is that it
can get lonely and tedious sometimes. Find a friend (or a group with similar
skill levels) who enjoy doing math problems, and use the group environment to
encourage each other’s progress!

Preparing with your team is key, especially for competitions like BmMT, where
three out of the four rounds are team based rounds. Understanding your team's
strengths and weaknesses will help you know when to team up and collaborate, and
when to divide-and-conquer. Set up a few times to meet with your team and go
through some past BmMT rounds together. You’ll feel much more prepared and be
more ready to work together cohesively.

### 2. Know what to expect.

Don’t attend your first math tournament without a good idea of what to expect.
This goes beyond practicing for the problems you’ll see.

First, we recommend being comfortable with the format of the competition. For
us, this means going through our archive. Study what each different part of the
competition entails, how it’s structured, etc. Even though the BmMT puzzle topic
changes year to year, it is nice to take the puzzle round from a previous year
so then you learn how to read the instructions! For the BmMT puzzle round,
competitors will have 15 minutes to read the instructions, which explain the
rules of the puzzle, before the 60 minutes to actually solve the problems.

Most math competitions generally cover four main topics: algebra, geometry,
number theory, and combinatorics/probability. We know all of these aren’t in
your standard middle school curriculum, so be prepared for that. Some great free
resources exist on the web, like the [Art of Problem Solving
Wiki](https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/Main_Page)!

### 3. Practice, practice, practice…

It’s important to practice effectively, so here’s a few tips on how to do that.
We already talked about practicing with your team, but we’ll say it again
because it’s that important! The practice tests will be the most helpful to you
if you actually attempt to solve the questions before looking at the solutions.
The solutions are more valuable once you’ve actually tried the problem — you can
compare the solution’s approach to the problem to your approach, and note what
you did or didn’t notice about the problem. Just reading the solutions without
trying the problem will not be as helpful, and you won’t get the experience of
thinking about each question without the knowledge of the solution. Some of the
problems are hard and you’ll probably get stuck, but finally getting the
breakthrough and figuring everything out is part of the fun of it.

There are different opinions about how to actually go through the practice
tests, so you’ll have to see what’s best for you and your team. It might be
helpful to take the tests as if you’re really in the competition setting, i.e.
timing yourself. However, this might add stress to the study experience, so it
might be preferable for you to put the timer away. Work with your friends,
giving yourselves a while to look at each problem. It’ll be easier to process
the information and skills you’re learning if you aren’t switching from problem
to problem constantly.

### 4. Set realistic goals.

You should also set reasonable expectations and goals whenever you go to a math
contest. The average scores on BmMT exams are usually less than 50%. Lots of
students who take our tests are used to doing well on their school exams, and
earning almost perfect scores. You shouldn’t expect to get the same kinds of
results that you get at school. The exams are harder, and it’s our goal to teach
or show you something new.

You should be proud when you get any question right, and the questions you get
wrong should be seen as an opportunity to learn, not in any way a mark against
your problem solving skills. Solving even a few of the questions is an
accomplishment and should make you feel proud and satisfied. So, beyond just
looking at your score at the end of the day, you should focus on how you
improved your problem solving skills, learned something new, and had fun with
your team.

### 5. Have fun!!

Our goal is not just to make you take a bunch of tests, but to create a space
for students who are passionate about mathematics. We hope you enjoy spending
time with your team, going to the activities, and making new friends from other
teams.

---

Hopefully this post helps give you some ideas about how to get started with
preparing for BmMT. We hope to see you at [BmMT 2025](/events/bmmt-2025/) in a
few months, or at a future event!

Best,<br>
Your friends at BMT
