+++
title = "Berkeley mini Math Tournament 2024"
date = 2024-04-14
aliases = ["/bmmt-2024"]
+++

Welcome to Berkeley mini Math Tournament 2024! BmMT 2024 will be **in-person**,
with various **satellite tournaments**. The tournament will consist of 4 main
rounds — Puzzle, Individual, Team, and Relay.

<!-- more -->

BmMT is open to middle school students in **grades 8 or below**. In particular,
there is **no lower age limit** to compete in BmMT; advanced elementary students
are welcome to compete. Coaches can register **up to 5 students per team**.
There are no restrictions on how many teams/students a single coach can
register. You do not have to be local to the Bay Area or California to register
for BmMT.

{% alert(title="Registration Closed") %} We have hit our cap of 800
registrations, and registration is now closed for BmMT 2024. {% end %}

# Registration Information

{% button_link(href="https://contestdojo.com/") %} Registration Portal {% end %}

## Registration, Waivers, and Pricing

| Dates       | Registration Period  | Price Per Student | Additional Notes                                               |
| ----------- | -------------------- | ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 2/1 – 3/15  | Regular Registration | $15               | Shirts may be pre-ordered for $8 per student.                  |
| 3/16 – 3/31 | Late Registration    | $20               | Shirts are not guaranteed, but may be purchased day-of for $10 |

\*All dates are in PT. That is, Regular Registration ends at 11:59 PM PT on
3/15/2024.

\*\*For students facing financial hardship, please contact <team@berkeley.mt>
for a fee waiver. We will not honor refunds during late registration.

Registration is performed on ContestDojo. Coaches may register up to 5 people
per team, and ContestDojo will allow them to assign and modify teams up until
tournament day.

**All contestants are required to have their parent/guardian sign UC Berkeley’s
consent waivers through this portal. Contestants will NOT be allowed to take the
contest without having a signed liability and consent to treatment waiver.**

Any questions about the ContestDojo portal should be directed to us at
<team@berkeley.mt>.

## Student Eligibility

- Students must be in **grade 8 or below** to be eligible for BmMT.
- Students do not have to be local to the California Bay Area or the U.S. to
  participate in BmMT. Please see “Satellites” for other options on tournaments.
- Coaches may register multiple teams. We ask that **for every 2 teams, there is
  at least 1 parent chaperone**.
- **Due to room constraints, we will cut-off registration at 800 students on a
  first-come, first-serve basis.**

## Team Finder

Students may register as a team of 1, however, it is beneficial to compete on a
team of at least 3 due to our scoring guidelines. For students who do not have a
full team, we organized a [Team-Finder] document. Follow all outlined steps in
the document.

# BmMT Rounds

### Puzzle Round (75 mins)

The puzzle round is a team-based round that consists of a variety of
mathematical challenges designed to promote inductive reasoning and lateral
thinking.

### Individual Round (60 mins)

The individual round consists of 20 short answer questions spanning various
subjects typically found in math competitions. This includes, but is not limited
to, algebra, geometry, counting, probability, and number theory.

### Team Round (60 mins)

The team round consists of 20 short answer questions. Students may work with
their teams on these questions.

### Relay Round (Duration TBA)

The relay round consists of 20 problems across various subjects in math. The key
feature of this round is that some questions may depend on answers from one or
multiple prior questions.

## Tiebreakers

The tiebreakers will be held for the top scoring students in the individual
round. Tiebreaker qualifiers will be announced at the end of the Relay Round,
and will be a 15-minute test. The test will consist of three questions, and be
scored primarily on correctness and secondarily on submission time; that is, an
earlier submission will be worth more than a later one with the same number of
correct answers, but less than a later one with more correct answers.

## Summary

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th></th>
            <th>Puzzle</th>
            <th>Individual</th>
            <th style="width:100px">Team</th>
            <th>Relay</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <th>Important Details</td>
            <td>Logic Puzzle based</td>
            <td>N/A</td>
            <td>N/A</td>
            <td>Questions may rely on answers to other questions</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th>Location</td>
            <td style="text-align: center" colspan="4">
                Assigned Classrooms — See Tournament Guide
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th># of Questions</td>
            <td>TBA</td>
            <td>20</td>
            <td>20</td>
            <td>20</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th>Duration</td>
            <td>75 mins</td>
            <td>60 mins</td>
            <td>60 mins</td>
            <td>TBA</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th>% of Score</td>
            <td>20%</td>
            <td>40%</td>
            <td>30%</td>
            <td>10%</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th>Important Scoring Notes</td>
            <td>N/A</td>
            <td>If teams have less than 3 members, the remaining scores will be counted as 0</td>
            <td>N/A</td>
            <td>N/A</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th>Collaboration?</td>
            <td>Yes</td>
            <td>No, students will work individually</td>
            <td>Yes</td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Acceptable Answers

Students are responsible for familiarizing themselves with the
[acceptable test formatting document](/assets/answer-formats.pdf) and
[common notation document](/assets/answer-formats.pdf) for details on how their
answers should be submitted. Answers not submitted in the listed formats will be
graded as incorrect, even if equivalent.

## Scoring

To calculate the individual score, we will take the average of every team
member’s score on their individual portion if the team has 3, 4, or 5 members.
If the team has fewer than that many members, we will add 0’s until the team has
reached at least 3 scores, of which we will take the average.

While individuals are allowed to register a 1-person team, we highly encourage
students without a team to use the [Team-Finder] to create a team of at least 3.

Scores for a given round will be normalized by either the top 10 scores or the
top 10% score, whichever is greater.

# Schedule

The schedule will be updated here soon, but the event is expected to begin at 8
AM and end at 6:30 PM.

<!--- | Time     | Student Event                   | -->
<!--- | -------- | ------------------------------- | -->
<!--- | 8:00 AM  | Check-In                        | -->
<!--- | 9:00 AM  | Puzzle Round + Individual Round | -->
<!--- | 12:00 PM | Lunch                           | -->
<!--- | 1:15 PM  | Team Round + Relay Round        | -->
<!--- | 3:30 PM  | Activities                      | -->
<!--- | 5:00 PM  | Awards                          | -->

# Day of Logistics

## Room Assignments

BmMT will give out room assignments to teams where they will take every test
during the day. Classroom assignments will be posted closer to the competition
date.

# Frequently Asked Questions

### Are calculators or other reference material allowed?

Graph paper and calculators are prohibited, but protractors, rulers, and
compasses are permitted. Blank white scratch paper will be provided for all
participants. All answers must be exact, reduced, and simplified. Illegible
answers will not be graded. Cheating in any form will not be tolerated, and
failure to comply with all rules may result in immediate and irreversible
disqualification.

### Can middle school students compete? What if I don’t have a team?

Yes! BmMT is open to any student in 8th grade or below, including those who
haven’t entered middle school. While students are allowed to compete as
individuals under “LAST_NAME Homeschool” or some other variation, we highly
recommend that students compete on a team of at least 3 due to our scoring
guidelines. To calculate the overall Individual score, we will take the average
of every team member’s score on their individual portion if the team has 3, 4,
or 5 members. If the team has less than that many members, we will add 0’s until
the team has reached at least 3 scores, of which we will take the average.

### How are awards handled?

Awards will be physically presented to contestants at BmMT 2024’s closing
ceremony.

### I’m in a different timezone or non-local and can’t compete live. What are my options?

There will be BmMT Satellite competitions held through our partners across the
globe for competitors wishing to compete in a different time zone.

### Will lunch be provided?

Lunch is **not provided** for BmMT 2024. Students, coaches and parents are free
to find food in Berkeley. Restaurants can be found on the south side of campus
(~5 minute walk from home rooms) and downtown (~15 minute walk from home rooms)

### Where can I find parking / How can I get around Berkeley?

BmMT will not be providing parking or travel arrangements for students — it is
up to coaches and/or parents to handle travel logistics. There are a number of
parking garages around the campus, including Underhill Structure, Lower Hearst
Structure, and the RSF garage. In addition, UC Berkeley campus is very public
transport friendly. If you are staying in Emeryville, Bus Line 36 will take you
directly to campus, and the Downtown Berkeley BART station is next to campus

[Team-Finder]:
  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17OPSNkdVjTZ-ssuaqQVVU88bFGGI5b-Bm5-0jNC43qM/edit?usp=sharing
