+++
title = "Berkeley Math Tournament 2024"
date = 2024-11-02
aliases = ["/bmt-2024"]
+++

We're excited to welcome students back to the UC Berkeley campus on November 2,
2024, for this year's Berkeley Math Tournament! As in past years, the contest
will consist of three rounds: Power, Individual, and Guts.

<!-- more -->

BMT is open to high school students in **grades 12 or below**. In particular,
there is **no lower age limit** to participate; advanced middle school students
are welcome to compete. Teams may have up to 6 students. You do not have to be
local to the Bay Area or California to register for BMT.

{% button_link(href="https://contestdojo.com/") %} Registration Portal {% end %}

## Registration Timeline

Registration will open on **Monday, September 16 at 9:00 AM PT**. This year,
registration will take place in two phases to give smaller organizations an
opportunity to register.

{% alert(title="Limited Capacity Available", status="info") %}
Due to room constraints, there is a limited number of seats available for this
event. The exact limit is yet to be finalized, but it will be greater than 750
students. While we don't expect to reach this limit in Phase 1, we encourage
coaches to register as soon as possible to guarantee space.
{% end %}

| Dates         | Registration Period | Price Per Student | Additional Notes                                                                       |
| ------------- | ------------------- | ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 9/16 – 9/30   | Phase 1             | $15               | Limited to 36 seats per organization.<br>Shirts may be pre-ordered for $8 per student. |
| 10/1 – 10/14  | Phase 2             | $15               | No limit on seats per organization.<br>Shirts may be pre-ordered for $8 per student.   |
| 10/15 – 10/26 | Late Registration   | $25               | Shirts are not guaranteed, but may be purchased day-of for $10.                        |

\*All dates are in US Pacific Time. That is, Phase 2 registration ends at 11:59
PM PT on 10/14/2024.

\*\*For students facing financial hardship, please contact <team@berkeley.mt>
for a fee waiver.

## Student Eligibility

- Students must be in **grade 12 or below** to be eligible for BMT.
- Students do not have to be local to the Bay Area, California, or the U.S. to
  participate in BMT. However, we will offer BMT Online in either December or
  January (TBA), which may be more convenient for some students.
- Coaches may register multiple teams under the same organization. We ask that
  organizations provide at least one adult chaperone for every two teams.

## How to Register

Most pre- and post-contest tasks, including registration, team assignments,
signing of waivers, and viewing score reports, may be completed at
[ContestDojo](https://contestdojo.com/), an online math competition platform. If
you are unfamiliar with ContestDojo, please read our [ContestDojo Guide].

**All contestants under 18 are required to have their parent/guardian sign UC
Berkeley's consent waivers through this portal. Contestants will NOT be allowed
to take the contest without having a signed liability and consent to treatment
waiver. Students 18 and over may self-sign these waivers.**

Any questions about the ContestDojo portal should be directed to us at
<team@berkeley.mt>.

### Teammate Finder

Students may register as a team of 1. However, it is beneficial to compete on a
team of at least 4 due to our scoring guidelines. For students who do not have a
full team, we have organized a [Teammate Finder] spreadsheet. Follow all
outlined steps in the spreadsheet.

## Schedule

Our event schedule is yet to be finalized, but we expect the tournament to start
at 7:30 AM and end before 8:00 PM, with a lunch break in the middle.

### Lunch

This year, we are offering lunch for students, coaches, and parents at $12 per
person, catered from [Crave Subs](https://www.cravesubs.com/), a sandwich store
local to Berkeley. Those who wish to take this option **must pre-order on
ContestDojo** through their coach. There are three menu items to choose from:

- Ned Flanders — Turkey, Crave Sauce, Lettuce, & Tomato
- Mr. Incredible — Pastrami, Crave Sauce, Lettuce, & Tomato
- Vegan Marvin The Martian — Cucumbers, Pesto, Arugula, Crave Sauce, Lettuce, & Tomato

Students, coaches and parents are also free to find their own food. Many
restaurants can be found on the south side of campus (~5 minute walk from rooms)
and in Downtown Berkeley (~15 minute walk from rooms).

## Contest Format

### Power Round (90 mins)

The Power Round is a **proof-based team round.** Contestants will answer a
series of questions centered around a single topic not typically seen in
competitive mathematics, culminating in incredible results in the field of that
chosen topic. For all questions (unless stated otherwise), teams will need to
provide a rigorous mathematical justification for their assertions in full
sentences.

The topic for the Power Round will likely be at an undergraduate level, but no
substantial previous mathematical background is expected.

### Individual Round

For the Individual Round, students may choose to take either the General Test or
two Focus Tests.

#### General Test (90 mins)

The General Test is an individual test consisting of questions across the
various subjects that comprise the Focus Tests. This test is intended to be
easier than the Focus Tests and is highly recommended for students with less
prior contest experience.

#### Focus Tests (60 mins)

There are four Focus Tests of 10 questions across four subjects — Algebra,
Geometry, Discrete (Combinatorics and Number Theory), and Calculus. Each student
can participate in two Focus Tests.

### Guts Round (75 mins)

The Guts Round consists of **9 sets of 3 problems** across various subjects in
math. The key feature of this round is that each set must be turned in before
the next set is given. All teams can see a live scoreboard with their standings.

## Scoring

Individuals are only ranked within the tests they choose to take. Individual
Round scores are determined by the number of correct answers. Each correct
answer is worth 1 point, i.e. there is no weighting among the problems.

Team scores are determined based on a combination of teams' scores on the Guts
and Power Rounds, as well as the Individual Round scores of their team members.
The weights are displayed in the table in summary table below.

When weighting team scores, scores for a given test will be normalized by either
the average of the top 10 scores or the top 10% of scores, whichever represents
more students/teams. Additionally, if a student takes the General Test instead
of the two Focus Tests, their score will only count for half as many points as
the Focus Test combinations would.

### Tiebreakers

A tiebreaking procedure is employed for top awards for each test. Ties are not
broken for honorable mentions or calculating overall team scores.

To streamline the event, we have a new automatic tiebreaker policy this year,
which works as follows:

1. First, problems are ordered from **hardest** to **easiest**, based on the
   number of correct submissions.
1. The _n_-th hardest problem is assigned a **tiebreaking value** of
   2<sup>−*n*</sup>. For example, the hardest problem will have a tiebreaking
   value of ½, the second hardest problem will have a tiebreaking value of ¼, et
   cetera.
1. Each student's **tiebreaking index** is calculated as the sum of their
   original score and the tiebreaker values of the problems that they correctly
   answered.
1. Students are ordered by their tiebreaking index, determining their tiebroken
   rank.

In simpler terms, among those tied for the same score, whoever solved the
hardest problem is placed the highest, followed by the one who solved the next
hardest, and so on.

### Additional Tiebreaker Procedure

If a tie remains on the Individual Round after the preceding automatic
tiebreaking procedure -- i.e., if two students correctly answered precisely the
same set of problems, then those students will participate in an additional
Tiebreaker Round. Ties that remain on the Guts Round or Power Round will be
tiebroken.

This 15-minute test will consist of either three (for the Focus Tests) or five
(for the General Test) questions, and be scored primarily on correctness and
secondarily on submission time; i.e. an earlier submission will be worth more
than a later one with the same number of correct answers, but less than a later
one with more correct answers.

Students may submit multiple times within the duration of the test, but only the
last submission will be considered.

### Round & Scoring Summary

<table>
  <colgroup>
    <col span="1" style="width: 20%;">
    <col span="1" style="width: 12%;">
    <col span="1" style="width: 24%;">
    <col span="1" style="width: 24%;">
    <col span="1" style="width: 20%;">
  </colgroup>

  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th>Power</th>
      <th>General</th>
      <th>Focus</th>
      <th>Guts</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>Important Details</td>
      <td>Proof-based</td>
      <td colspan="2" class="text-center">
        Students may choose to participate in <strong>either</strong> the General Test or <strong>two</strong> separate Focus Tests, but not both.
      </td>
      <td>Submitted and scored live in sets of 3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Location</td>
      <td colspan="4" class="text-center">
        Assigned Classrooms — See Tournament Guide
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th># of Questions</td>
      <td>TBA</td>
      <td>25</td>
      <td>10</td>
      <td>27</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Duration</td>
      <td>90 mins</td>
      <td>90 mins</td>
      <td>60 mins</td>
      <td>75 mins</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>% of Score</td>
      <td>30%</td>
      <td colspan="2">40%</td>
      <td>30%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Important Scoring Notes</td>
      <td>N/A</td>
      <td colspan="2">
        If a team has less than 4 members, scores of 0 will be added until the team has 4 Individual Round scores. The General Test will only count for half as many points as the Focus Test combinations.
      </td>
      <td>Teams are scored live, and a scoreboard will be displayed.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Collaboration?</td>
      <td>Yes</td>
      <td>No</td>
      <td>No</td>
      <td>Yes</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Acceptable Answers

Students are responsible for familiarizing themselves with the [acceptable
answer formats document](/assets/answer-formats.pdf) and [common notions
document](/assets/common-notions.pdf) for details on how their answers should be
submitted. Answers not submitted in the listed formats will be graded as
incorrect, even if equivalent.

## Activities

After lunch, we will host optional student activities that promote recreational
math and engage students in various ways. Participating students will have the
opportunity to win prizes! Below are the activities we expect to run:

### Estimathon

A team-based contest that combines trivia, game theory, strategy, and
mathematical thinking. Teams of ~3 will face a tight time limit to work on a set
of 13 Fermi-style estimation problems.

### Fraudulent Math

Attention all students! Mathematics is under attack by people who claim that we
need "rigor" and "logic" to justify our answers. Join us for an event of
Fraudulent Math, where students will compete to come up with the most
outlandish, mind bending proofs of false statements and to create impossible
constructions.

### Integration Bee

Compete head to head against the best integrators around! Students will face off
in a tournament style bracket, solving difficult integrals involving some clever
tricks, to determine who will be the champion of all integrators.

### Origami

Want to bring home a cute souvenir from BMT? Come join us for a fun origami
session! We will be offering multiple paper patterns and instructions, and
teaching from the basics of origami. No prior craft experience is needed.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Are calculators or other reference material allowed?

Graph paper and calculators are prohibited, but protractors, rulers, and
compasses are permitted. Blank white scratch paper will be provided for all
participants. All answers must be exact, reduced, and simplified. Illegible
answers will not be graded. Cheating in any form will not be tolerated, and
failure to comply with all rules may result in immediate and irreversible
disqualification.

### Can middle school students compete? What if I don't have a team?

Yes! BMT is open to any student in 12th grade or below, including those who
haven't entered high school. While students are allowed to compete as
individuals, we highly recommend that students compete on a team of at least 4
due to our scoring guidelines.

### How are awards handled?

Awards will be physically presented to contestants at the closing ceremony.

### I'm in a different timezone or non-local and can't compete live. What are my options?

There will be BMT Satellite competitions held through our partners across the
globe for competitors wishing to compete in a different time zone. Additionally,
we may offer an online option for remote participation.

### Where can I find parking / How can I get around Berkeley?

BMT will not be providing parking or travel arrangements for students — it is up
to coaches and/or parents to handle travel logistics. There are a number of
parking garages around the campus, including the Telegraph Channing Garage
(recommended), Underhill Structure, Lower Hearst Structure, and the RSF garage.
The Telegraph Channing Garage is cheaper than the campus-owned garages (and free
up to an hour) and more conveniently located than most of the garages listed. In
addition, UC Berkeley campus is very public transport friendly.

If you are staying in Emeryville, Bus Line 36 will take you directly to campus,
and the Downtown Berkeley BART station is next to campus.

[Teammate Finder]: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1u5m7o9AKRmRdWDF1NqUc9Hs3rYGWKwtpREvVAGL5YvE/edit?usp=sharingg
[ContestDojo Guide]: https://docs.berkeley.mt/s/contestdojo-guide
