+++
title = "Berkeley Math Tournament 2023"
date = 2023-11-04
+++

Welcome to Berkeley Math Tournament 2023! BMT 2023 will be **in-person**, with
various **satellite tournaments**. The tournament will consist of 3 main rounds
— Power, Focus/General, and Guts.

BMT is open to high school students in **grades 12 or below**. In particular,
there is **no lower age limit** to compete in BMT; advanced middle school
students are welcome to compete. Coaches can register **up to 6 students per
team**. There are no restrictions on how many teams/students a single coach can
register. You do not have to be local to the Bay Area or California to register
for BMT.

# Registration Information

## Registration is now closed for BMT 2023.

## Registration, Waivers, and Pricing

| Dates        | Registration Period | Price Per Student | Additional Notes                                               |
| ------------ | ------------------- | ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 10/2 – 10/14 | Normal Registration | $20               | Shirts may be pre-ordered for $8 per student.                  |
| 10/15 – 11/1 | Late Registration   | $30               | Shirts are not guaranteed, but may be purchased day-of for $10 |

\*All dates are in PT. That is, Normal Registration ends at 11:59 PM PT on
10/14/2023.

\*\*For students facing financial hardship, please contact
<finance@bmt.berkeley.edu> for a fee waiver. We will not honor refunds during
late registration.

Registration is performed on ContestDojo. Coaches may register up to 6 people
per team, and ContestDojo will allow them to assign and modify teams up until
tournament day.

**All contestants are required to have their parent/guardian sign UC Berkeley’s
consent waivers through this portal. Contestants will NOT be allowed to take the
contest without having a signed liability and consent to treatment waiver.**

Any questions about the ContestDojo portal should be directed to us at
<questions@bmt.berkeley.edu>.

## Student Eligibility

- Students must be in **grade 12 or below** to be eligible for BMT.
- Students do not have to be local to the California Bay Area or the U.S. to
  participate in BMT. Please see “Satellites” for other options on tournaments.
- Coaches may register multiple teams. We ask that **for every 2 teams, there is
  at least 1 parent chaperone**.
- **Due to room constraints, we will cut-off registration at 700 students on a
  first-come, first-serve basis.**

## Team Finder

Students may register as a team of 1, however, it is beneficial to compete on a
team of at least 4 due to our scoring guidelines. For students who do not have a
full team, we organized a [Team-Finder] document. Follow all outlined steps in
the document.

# BMT Rounds

### Power Round (90 mins)

The Power Round is a **proof-based team round.** Contestants will answer a
series of questions centered around a single topic not typically seen in
competitive mathematics, culminating in incredible results in the field of that
chosen topic. For all questions (unless stated otherwise), you will need to
provide a rigorous mathematical justification for your assertions in full
sentences. The topic for the Power Round will likely be at an undergraduate
level, but no substantial previous mathematical background is expected.

### General Round (90 mins)

The general round is an **individual round** consisting of questions across the
various subjects that comprise the focus rounds. This round is **highly
recommended** for students with less prior contest experience.\*

### Focus Rounds (60 mins)

There are four focus rounds of 10 questions across four subjects --- Algebra,
Geometry, Discrete Math, and Calculus. Each student can participate in **two
rounds** of focus exams.\*

### Guts Round (75 mins)

The guts round consists of **9 sets of 3 problems** across various subjects in
math. The key feature of this round is that each set **must be turned in**
before the next set is given. All teams can see a live scoreboard with their
standings

\*Students may choose to **either** take the General Round **or** two Focus
Rounds.

## Tiebreakers

The tiebreakers will be held for the top scoring students in the individual
round. Tiebreaker qualifiers will be announced at the end of lunch and the
beginning of activities, and will be a 15-minute test. The test will consist of
three questions, and be scored primarily on correctness and secondarily on
submission time; that is, an earlier submission will be worth more than a later
one with the same number of correct answers, but less than a later one with more
correct answers.

## Summary

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th></th>
            <th style="text-align: center">Power</th>
            <th style="text-align: center">General</th>
            <th style="text-align: center">Focus</th>
            <th style="text-align: center">Guts</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <th>Important Details</td>
            <td>Proof Based</td>
            <td style="text-align: center" colspan="2">
				Students may choose to participate in <strong>either</strong> the General Round or <strong>two</strong> separate Focus Rounds, but not both
            </td>
            <td>Submitted and scored live in sets of 3</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th>Location</td>
            <td style="text-align: center" colspan="4">
                Assigned Classrooms — See Tournament Guide
            </td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th># of Questions</td>
            <td>TBA</td>
            <td>25</td>
            <td>10</td>
            <td>27</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th>Duration</td>
            <td>90 mins</td>
            <td>90 mins</td>
            <td>60 mins</td>
            <td>75 mins</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th>% of Score</td>
            <td>30%</td>
            <td style="text-align: center" colspan="2">40%</td>
            <td>30%</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th>Important Scoring Notes</td>
            <td>N/A</td>
            <td style="text-align: center" colspan="2">
            If teams have less than 4 members, the remaining scores will be counted as 0. The General Round will only count for half as many points as the Focus combinations
            </td>
            <td>Teams are live scored, and there will be a displayed scoreboard</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th>Collaboration?</td>
            <td>Yes</td>
            <td>No, students will work individually</td>
            <td>No, students will work individually</td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Acceptable Answers

Students are responsible for familiarizing themselves with the
[acceptable test formatting document](/assets/answer-formats.pdf) and
[common notions document](/assets/common-notions.pdf) for details on how their
answers should be submitted. Answers not submitted in the listed formats will be
graded as incorrect, even if equivalent.

## Scoring

To calculate the individual score, we will take the average of every team
member’s score on their individual portion if the team has 4, 5, or 6 members.
If the team has fewer than that many members, we will add 0’s until the team has
reached at least 4 scores, of which we will take the average.

While individuals are allowed to register a 1-person team, we highly encourage
students without a team to use the [Team-Finder] to create a team of at least 4.

Scores for a given round will be normalized by either the top 10 scores or the
top 10% score, whichever is greater.

If a student takes the General Round instead of the two Focus rounds, their
score will only count for half as many points as the Focus combination will.

# Schedule

| Time     | Student Event            |
| -------- | ------------------------ |
| 8:00 AM  | Check-In                 |
| 9:00 AM  | Power Round              |
| 10:45 AM | Focus + General Rounds   |
| 1:00 PM  | Lunch                    |
| 2:15 PM  | Tiebreakers + Activities |
| 3:45 PM  | Guts                     |
| 6:00 PM  | Awards                   |

## Student Activities

Student activities will be updated here soon!

## Parent Activities

Parent activities will be updated here soon!

# Day of Logistics

## Room Assignments

BMT will give out room assignments to teams where they will take every test
during the day. Classroom assignments will be posted closer to the competition
date.

# Frequently Asked Questions

### Are calculators or other reference material allowed?

Graph paper and calculators are prohibited, but protractors, rulers, and
compasses are permitted. Blank white scratch paper will be provided for all
participants. All answers must be exact, reduced, and simplified. Illegible
answers will not be graded. Cheating in any form will not be tolerated, and
failure to comply with all rules may result in immediate and irreversible
disqualification.

### Can middle school students compete? What if I don’t have a team?

Yes! BMT is open to any student in 8th grade or below, including those who
haven’t entered high school. While students are allowed to compete as
individuals under “LAST_NAME Homeschool” or some other variation, we highly
recommend that students compete on a team of at least 4 due to our scoring
guidelines. To calculate the overall Individual score, we will take the average
of every team member’s score on their individual portion if the team has 4, 5,
or 6 members. If the team has less than that many members, we will add 0’s until
the team has reached at least 4 scores, of which we will take the average.

### How are awards handled?

Awards will be physically presented to contestants at BMT 2023’s closing
ceremony.

### I’m in a different timezone or non-local and can’t compete live. What are my options?

There will be BMT Satellite competitions held through our partners across the
globe for competitors wishing to compete in a different time zone.

### Will lunch be provided?

Lunch is **not provided** for BMT 2023. Students, coaches and parents are free
to find food in Berkeley. Restaurants can be found on the south side of campus
(~5 minute walk from homerooms) and downtown (~15 minute walk from home rooms)

### Where can I find parking / How can I get around Berkeley?

BMT will not be providing parking or travel arrangements for students — it is up
to coaches and/or parents to handle travel logistics. There are a number of
parking garages around the campus, including Underhill Structure, Lower Hearst
Structure, and the RSF garage. In addition, UC Berkeley campus is very public
transport friendly. If you are staying in Emeryville, Bus Line 36 will take you
directly to campus, and the Downtown Berkeley BART station is next to campus

[Team-Finder]:
  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1i1RW4OTW8qP2Sb2GZd2gGTuP8Rusd-8bv-gJiRrODhI/edit?usp=sharing
