+++
title = "BMT 2023 November 4 Day-of Logistics"
+++

To all coaches and students,

BMT 2023 is coming up on November 4! This email details the day-of tournament
logistics for the 2023 Berkeley Math Tournament. Please read this email **in its
entirety** — understanding of these details is crucial to ensuring a smooth
experience at the event.

{% button_link(href="/events/bmt-2023") %} Event Details {% end %}

## Important Information

For any day-of directions, questions or concerns ask a BMT staff member or
volunteer wearing a mint green shirt (many will be on the first floor of the
Social Sciences Building).

You will be assigned a Power room upon checking in. **Do not enter this room
until the door is propped open and there is a BMT proctor inside.**

## Arrival and Check-in

Check-in will happen in Hearst Field Annex A1 from 8:00 AM to 9:00 AM. Each
organization should send one coach to HFAX A1.

At Check-in, coaches will receive:

- An envelope for submitting the power round for each team in their
  organization. **Teams will not be able to compete in the power round without
  this envelope. It is the coaches responsibility to pass the envelopes to the
  students.**

- A sticker sheet containing name tags for each student with their ID, as well
  as their room assignments. **Students are responsible for remembering their
  student ID throughout the day. If a student writes an incorrect ID on their
  test, they may not receive a score.**

- An information packet about the tournament, containing a schedule, map, and
  other relevant information.

- A voucher for pre-ordered t-shirts. This voucher can be redeemed at a table
  near the check-in area.

In order to streamline the process, if your organization is bringing 18 or more
students, you will receive a separate email detailing a **special check-in
procedure for large teams**.

### Students During Check-in

Students **are not allowed in the check-in building**. Students may remain in
the Hearst Field Annex courtyard while coaches are checking in. Alternatively,
below is a list of other recommended meeting places:

- In front of Wheeler Hall
- Near Social Sciences Building

If it is raining outside, here are some recommended indoor meeting places:

- Hallway of Level C or E in Dwinelle Hall (Please do not crowd level D - Cal
  Mock Trial has the lobby reserved for their event)
- Social Sciences Building overhang on the eastern side.
- Social Sciences Hallways

### Parking

Parking can be found near campus at the following locations:

- Telegraph-Channing Garage _(recommended)_
- Underhill Garage
- RSF Garage
- Lower Sproul Garage
- Ellsworth Garage

If none of these options are available, more parking options are listed at the
[Berkeley Parking and Transportation website](https://pt.berkeley.edu/parking/visitor-parking/lots-pricing).

## Schedule of Events

<div class="overflow-x-scroll">
<table class="min-w-[42rem]">
<thead>
<tr>
    <th style="min-width: 140px">Time</th>
    <th>Event</th>
    <th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
    <td>8:00 – 9:00 AM</td>
    <td>Check-In (Coaches Only)</td>
    <td>Hearst Field Annex (HFAX) A1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>9:00 – 10:45 AM</td>
    <td>Power Round<br>(Rooms open at 8:45 AM)</td>
    <td>Classrooms in Dwinelle Hall and Social Sciences Building to be assigned upon check-in</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>10:45 AM – 1:00 PM</td>
    <td>General and Focus Rounds</td>
    <td>
        <b>Algebra & Geometry</b> - Dwinelle 109, 130, 179, 182, 183<br>
        <b>Algebra & Discrete</b> - Dwinelle 205, 255, 258, 259, 262<br>
        <b>Algebra & Calculus</b> - Dwinelle 83, 87<br>
        <b>Calculus & Geometry</b> - Dwinelle 263<br>
        <b>Calculus & Discrete</b> - Dwinelle 283<br>
        <b>Discrete & Geometry</b> - Dwinelle 79, 89<br>
        <b>General</b> - Hearst Field Annex A1, Social Sciences 136, 151, 155, 175, 185<br>
        <i>If there is no space in any of the rooms for the focus pair you want to take, head to Dwinelle 187</i>
    </td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>1:00 – 2:00 PM</td>
    <td>
        Lunch (not provided)<br>
        Problem Disputes (1:00-1:30)<br>
        Extra T-Shirt Sales</td>
    <td>
        <b>Problem Disputes</b> (Power, Focus, General) - Social Sciences 185<br>
        <b>T-shirt Sales</b> - Hearst Field Annex A1 (while supplies last)
    </td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>2:15 – 4:00 PM</td>
    <td>Activities (Optional)<br>
        Tiebreakers<br>
        <i>Tiebreakers will be posted on our website and coaches will be emailed.</i></td>
    <td>
        See activities description<br>
        <b>Tiebreakers</b> (by invite only): Social Sciences 175, 185</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>4:00 – 6:00 PM</td>
    <td>Guts (Please arrive with your team)</td>
    <td>Guts room is assigned during check-in.<br>Students should enter as a team, get a rules sheet from a proctor pair and sit near that proctor pair.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>6:00 – 7:00 PM</td>
    <td>Awards</td>
    <td>
        <b>Dwinelle 145</b> (Organization Names: A-C)<br>
        <b>Dwinelle 155</b> (Organization Names: D-Z )<br>
        <b>Overflow: Hearst Field Annex A1<br>
    </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Testing Rooms

Each team will be assigned a room for their Power and Guts rounds during
Check-in. Room assignments will be provided on the sticker sheet as well as
emailed to all coaches, along with Team and Student IDs.

For Focus and General rounds, students may go to any of the rooms assigned to
the test combination they selected. **Room assignments for each test combination
are listed on the tournament guide.**

Students are responsible for finding the rooms that their tests are taking place
in. A map is attached in the information packet provided at check-in.

## Lunch

Lunch is not provided for students and coaches during the day. There will be an
approximately 90 minute lunch period in the middle of the day for students to
get food. Options that are close to campus include the restaurants on the
Southern side of Berkeley Campus along Telegraph Avenue (~5 minutes walk) and in
Downtown Berkeley (~10 minutes walk)

## Activities

### Parent Activities

Between 9:00 AM and 11:00 AM, we will have a parent lounge in Hearst Field Annex
A1. However, we will need to use this auditorium for General and Focus rounds
during the rest of the day.

During the day, our sponsors and local math groups will be tabling and parents
will have an opportunity to learn more about opportunities in math throughout
the Bay Area.

Additionally, we will be holding campus tours of UC Berkeley during the day,
around 10 AM, 11 AM, and later in the day around 2:15PM. Signups will happen
during the day, and will be announced in the parent lounge.

### Student Activities

After lunch, we will be hosting student activities. These are optional
activities that promote recreational math, and include the following:

- **Estimathon [Hearst Field Annex A1]** – A team-based contest that combines
  trivia, game theory, strategy, and mathematical thinking. Teams of ~3 will be
  under a time limit to work on a set of 13 Fermi-style problems.

- **Fraudulent Math [Social Sciences 151, 155]** – Attention all students,
  mathematics is under attack by people who claim that we need “rigor” and
  “logic” to justify our answers. Join us for an event of Fraudulent Math, where
  we will compete to see who can come up with the most outlandish, mind bending
  proofs of false statements and who can create impossible constructions.

- **Integration Bee [Dwinelle 182, 183]** – Hosted by our Diamond Sponsor
  blackpen<span class="text-red-500">redpen</span>! Compete head to head against
  the best integrators around! Students will face off in a tournament style
  bracket, solving difficult integrals involving some clever tricks, to
  determine who will be the champion of all integrators.

- **Origami [Dwinelle 205, 206]** - Do you want to bring home a cute souvenir
  from BMT? Come make your own origami dodecahedron! We will be offering
  multiple paper patterns and instructions, and teaching from the basics of
  modular origami. No prior craft experience is needed!

## Awards

As we are short on auditorium space this year, the Awards Ceremony will take
place simultaneously in Dwinelle 145 and Dwinelle 155. Teams attending Awards
Ceremony **must attend in the auditorium they are assigned**, or else they may
not receive their award on time.

The two primary auditoriums, Dwinelle 145 and Dwinelle 155, are reserved for
**students first**. In the event that the auditorium is not able to seat more
parents, we will livestream the ceremony to Hearst Field Annex A1 for those who
want to attend.

Awards room assignments are as follows:

| Dwinelle 145                     | Dwinelle 155                      | Dwinelle 155                 |
| -------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| AlphaStar Academy                | Davidson Academy                  | OIC Maths Team               |
| Alzebra                          | DHS Math4All Club                 | Pacifica Mathematical Circle |
| American Canyon High School      | Dougherty Valley High School      | Palo Alto High School        |
| AoPS                             | Dublin Bahubali Boys              | Probability of Everything    |
| Aragon Math Club                 | ExScore                           | Proof School                 |
| Arnold O. Beckman High School    | FHS                               | Puzzled Penguins             |
| AV Math Team                     | Foothill High school              | Quarry Lane School           |
| Basis Independent Fremont Upper  | FROM X TO INFINITY                | Rajagopalan Shivakumar       |
| Basis Independent Silicon Valley | Henry M. Gunn High School         | Random Math                  |
| BBMC                             | Hillsdale High School             | RSM Bay Area                 |
| BCCT Math                        | Home school                       | San Mateo High School        |
| Bellarmine_Team                  | Homestead High School             | Santa Clara High School      |
| BIF                              | Hopkins                           | Santa Clara Math Circle      |
| The Bishop's School              | John C Kimball High School        | Saratoga High School         |
| Branham High School              | La Canada High School             | Seattle Infinity Math Circle |
| Breaking Maths - GECA 2023       | Las Vegas Math Circle             | Sierra Canyon School         |
| Canyon Crest Academy             | Lynbrook High School              | Srinivas School              |
| Conroe ISD                       | Math Enthusiasts                  | Technology High School       |
| Crystal Springs Uplands School   | Math Nerds                        | The Goofy Goobers            |
|                                  | MathTournaments                   | The Harker School            |
|                                  | Mills High School Math Club       | The Nueva School             |
|                                  | Milpitas High School              | TKA Math Team                |
|                                  | Minarets High School              | Torrey Pines                 |
|                                  | Mission Possible Teens Foundation | Vedic Math                   |
|                                  | Monta Vista High School           | Wilcox High School           |
|                                  | Monte Vista Math Club             | Youth EUCLID Association     |
|                                  | MSJ Math Club                     |                              |

Awards room assignments will also be provided in the sticker sheet.

## blackpen<span class="text-red-500">redpen</span> Sponsorship Reminder

Reminder that blackpen<span class="text-red-500">redpen</span> would like to
encourage teams that may either be new to BMT, or have faced certain barriers
that limit their exposure and ability to pursue math. This could include
financial hardship, lack of educational opportunities, inexperience in
competitive environments, etc. Three teams will receive a $300 scholarship based
on their responses to the application, which is linked below.

The deadline for the application is November 2nd. We understand it is a pretty
quick turnaround, so the questions are pretty brief, and we highly encourage you
to apply. Anyone from your team (coach/parent/student) may apply, but only
submit one application per team.

The application can be found
[at this link.](https://forms.gle/KUh2TL5Rq5c3NvRS9)

We are looking forward to hearing back from you!
