+++
title = "BMT 2023 Online Logistics Update"
+++

To all coaches and students,

Thank you for registering for BMT 2023 Online. We hope everyone had fun with the
Power Round and are excited to host you at our live synchronous event this
Saturday, where you'll participate in your General/Focus and Guts rounds! Please
read the following updates in full to ensure a smooth experience at the event.
Additionally, please review our
[previous logistics post](https://berkeley.mt/news/bmt-2023-online-logistics/)
here as well.

<!-- more -->

Reminder that the time of the event is Saturday, January 20, 2024 at 10:00 AM US
Pacific Time (UTC–8).

{% button_link(href="/events/bmt-2023-online") %} Event Details {% end %}
{% button_link(href="/news/bmt-2023-online-logistics") %} Previous Logistics
Post {% end %}

## Zoom Link

The event this weekend will be taking place over Zoom. Please ensure that you
have the latest Zoom app installed on your computer. **All coaches and students
have received an email with the Zoom link.** If you have not received the email,
please email us at
[questions@bmt.berkeley.edu](mailto:questions@bmt.berkeley.edu).

## ContestDojo Sample Rounds

Tests will be conducted through the [ContestDojo](https://contestdojo.com/)
platform, which is the same as the website that you used to register. We have
now opened a Sample Individual Round and a Sample Team Round that you can use to
familiarize yourself with the system, especially collaborating with your team.
We highly recommend all participants test out their system before the contest —
if you run into any issues, please email us at
[questions@bmt.berkeley.edu](mailto:questions@bmt.berkeley.edu).

## Guts Round Scoreboard

As a reminder, the Guts Round is taken in 9 sets of 3 problems and graded live
on a public leaderboard. You will be able to see your team's progress as well as
the progress of other teams. The live scoreboard will be streamed over Zoom and
can additionally be accessed at this link on the day of the event:
https://tinyurl.com/bmt-2023-online-guts.

## Activities

We will be hosting two activities over Zoom from 3:30 to 4:30 PM. The
descriptions are shown below.

Tiebreakers will also be held at this time. Names will be announced at the end
of lunch on Zoom as well as posted on the website.

- **Integration Bee** — Compete against the best integrators around! Students
  will face off in an exciting integration race, solving difficult integrals
  involving some clever tricks, to determine who will be the champion of all
  integrators.
- **Estimathon** — A team-based contest that combines trivia, game theory,
  strategy, and mathematical thinking. Teams of ~3 will be under a time limit to
  work on a set of 13 Fermi-style problems.

## Waivers

Reminder that waivers MUST be completed prior to the tournament. No exceptions
can be made — the system will lock you out of starting a test until your waiver
is completed.

---

We're excited to see everyone online in a few days! As always, if you need a
question answered, or have a issue/concern leading up to the event, please email
us at [questions@bmt.berkeley.edu](mailto:questions@bmt.berkeley.edu). We'll be
happy to take care of your issue ASAP.

Best regards, \
BMT Coordinators
