+++
title = "Test Selection Guidance for BMT 2025"
+++

Dear BMT competitors, coaches, and parents,

We are super excited to see you on campus in a couple weeks for BMT 2025! This
message is intended to provide more information about the General and Focus
Tests, especially some advice on how students should choose between the two. As
a reminder, students must choose to take **either** the General Test **or** two
Focus Tests for the individual round.

The **General Test** has 25 questions and time limit 90 minutes. It covers most
topics commonly taught in high school math and emphasizes algebra, geometry,
counting, probability, and elementary number theory.

Each **Focus Test** has 10 questions and time limit 60 minutes. The Focus Tests
cover one of the following areas each: algebra, calculus, discrete math
(combinatorics and number theory), and geometry. Some Focus Test problems
require knowledge or problem solving techniques not commonly taught in high
school classes. The **only** things at BMT which assume exposure to calculus are
the calculus Focus Test and optional integration bee activity.

### For students:

Our goals in hosting BMT include for you to have the best experience possible,
especially by offering you problems that are interesting and appropriately
challenging for you. We **strongly** encourage you to try previous BMT general
and Focus Tests in our [archive](https://berkeley.mt/resources/) to determine
which choice is right for you. In particular, if the Focus Tests feel
prohibitively difficult, please consider taking the General Test, and if the
General Test does not provide the challenge you are looking for, please consider
taking a focus pair.

### For coaches and parents:

We **strongly** encourage you to provide opportunities for your students to try
previous BMT focus and General Tests or to encourage them to do so on their own.
We think trying past tests is the best way for your students to understand the
differences between general and focus so they can pick the test(s) that will
give them the best experience.

It is **not too late to change students' test preferences**! To change between
focus and general or to switch focus topics, login to ContestDojo and change
your test selection by October 31.

Feel free to email us at <team@berkeley.mt> if you have remaining questions
about choosing focus vs. general or about any other aspect of the competition.
See you soon!

Best,<br>
BMT Team
